= webauthn-server-demo

A simple self-contained demo server supporting multiple authenticators per user.
It illustrates how to use the required integration points, the most important of
which is the user and credential registration storage, and also illustrates how
one can perform auxiliary actions such as adding an additional authenticator or
deregistering a credential.

The central part is the
link:src/main/java/demo/webauthn/WebAuthnServer.java[`WebAuthnServer`]
class, and the
link:src/main/java/demo/webauthn/WebAuthnRestResource.java[`WebAuthnRestResource`]
class which provides the REST API on top of it.


== Quick start

```
$ ./gradlew run
$ $BROWSER https://localhost:8443/
```


== Architecture

The example webapp is made up of three main layers, the bottom of which is the
link:../webauthn-server-core/[`webauthn-server-core`]
library:

- The front end interacts with the server via a *REST API*, implemented in
  link:src/main/java/demo/webauthn/WebAuthnRestResource.java[`WebAuthnRestResource`].
+
This layer manages translation between JSON request/response payloads and domain
objects, and most methods simply call into analogous methods in the server
layer.

- The REST API then delegates to the *server layer*, implemented in
  link:src/main/java/demo/webauthn/WebAuthnServer.java[`WebAuthnServer`].
+
This layer manages the general architecture of the system, and is where most
business logic and integration code would go. The demo server implements the
"persistent" storage of users and credential registrations - the
link:https://developers.yubico.com/java-webauthn-server/JavaDoc/webauthn-server-core/2.0.0/com/yubico/webauthn/CredentialRepository.html[`CredentialRepository`]
integration point - as the
link:src/main/java/demo/webauthn/InMemoryRegistrationStorage.java[`InMemoryRegistrationStorage`]
class, which simply keeps them stored in memory for a limited time. The
transient storage of pending challenges is also kept in memory, but for a
shorter duration.
+
The logic for authorizing registration of additional credentials, and
deregistration of credentials, is also in this layer. In general, anything that
would be specific to a particular Relying Party (RP) would go in this layer.

- The server layer in turn calls the *library layer*, which is where the
  link:../webauthn-server-core/[`webauthn-server-core`]
  library gets involved. The entry point into the library is the
  link:https://developers.yubico.com/java-webauthn-server/JavaDoc/webauthn-server-core/2.0.0/com/yubico/webauthn/RelyingParty.html[`RelyingParty`]
  class.
+
This layer implements the Web Authentication
https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#sctn-rp-operations[Relying Party Operations], and
takes care of all RP-agnostic parts of the Web Authentication logic: generating
challenges and verifying all aspects of the responses. It is mostly stateless,
and exposes integration points for storage of challenges and credentials. Some
notable integration points are:
+
** The library user must provide an implementation of the
link:https://developers.yubico.com/java-webauthn-server/JavaDoc/webauthn-server-core/2.0.0/com/yubico/webauthn/CredentialRepository.html[`CredentialRepository`]
interface to use for looking up stored public keys, user handles and signature
counters.
** The library user can optionally provide an instance of the
link:https://developers.yubico.com/java-webauthn-server/JavaDoc/webauthn-server-core/2.0.0/com/yubico/webauthn/attestation/AttestationTrustSource.html[`AttestationTrustSource`]
interface to enable identification and validation of authenticator models. This
instance is then used to look up trusted attestation root certificates. The
link:../webauthn-server-attestation/[`webauthn-server-attestation`]
sibling library provides implementations of this interface that are pre-seeded
with Yubico device metadata.


== Usage

This subproject includes two ways to run the demo server:

- As a `.war` archive to be deployed in any Java web server
- As a standalone Java executable


=== `.war` archive

The `.war` archive includes a simple web GUI hosted at `/`, relative to the
context root of the deployed `.war` application, which communicates with the
server via a REST API served at `/api/v1/`.

To build it, run

  $ ../gradlew war


=== Standalone Java executable

The standalone Java executable has the main class
link:src/main/java/demo/webauthn/EmbeddedServer.java[`demo.webauthn.EmbeddedServer`].
This server also serves the REST API at `/api/v1/`, and static resources for the
GUI under `/`.

To build it, run one of the following:

  $ ../gradlew distTar
  $ ../gradlew distZip

This will build an archive which can be unpacked and run anywhere with a Java
environment:

  $ unzip webauthn-server-demo-$VERSION.zip
  $ cd webauthn-server-demo-$VERSION
  $ ./bin/webauthn-server-demo
  > ./bin/webauthn-server-demo.bat

To build and run the demo server via Gradle, run:

  $ ./gradlew run

This will serve the application under `https://localhost:8443/`.

NOTE: Since WebAuthn requires a HTTPS connection, this demo server uses a dummy
certificate. This will cause your browser to show a warning, which is safe to
bypass. The dummy certificate is not included in the `.war` artifact; it is only
used by the embedded Jetty server and the application distribution archives.


=== Configuration

Both modes of running the server accept the following environment variables for
configuration. Note that if running via Gradle, you may need to disable the
Gradle daemon (`--no-daemon`) in order for the server process to have the
correct environment.

  - `YUBICO_WEBAUTHN_PORT`: Port number to run the server on. Example:
    `YUBICO_WEBAUTHN_PORT=8081`

    This is ignored when running as a `.war` artifact, since the port is
    controlled by the parent web server.

  - `YUBICO_WEBAUTHN_ALLOWED_ORIGINS`: Comma-separated list of origins the
    server will accept requests for. Example:
    `YUBICO_WEBAUTHN_ALLOWED_ORIGINS=http://demo.yubico.com:8080`

  - `YUBICO_WEBAUTHN_RP_ID`: The https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#rp-id[RP ID]
    the server will report.  Example: `YUBICO_WEBAUTHN_RP_ID=demo.yubico.com`

  - `YUBICO_WEBAUTHN_RP_NAME`: The human-readable
    https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#dom-publickeycredentialentity-name[RP name]
    the server will report. Example: `YUBICO_WEBAUTHN_RP_ID='Yubico Web
    Authentication demo'`

  - `YUBICO_WEBAUTHN_U2F_APPID`: The https://developers.yubico.com/U2F/App_ID.html[U2F App ID] (single-facet). Example: `YUBICO_WEBAUTHN_U2F_APPID=https://demo.yubico.com:8443`. If not specified, defaults to https://localhost:8443.
